packages/client/README.md, before:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/client/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/client

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/client?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/client)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/client?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/client?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

[@sanity/client](https://github.com/sanity-io/client) with typed GROQ Results

[![Watch How to Type Your Sanity Document and Client](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/886bd64a-00fb-473c-a60a-205a8a6767ad)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/13c28e6a-74a7-4b3c-8162-61fae921323b)

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Typing an untyped client (and vice versa)](#typing-an-untyped-client-and-vice-versa)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [Types match config but not actual documents](#types-match-config-but-not-actual-documents)
  - [GROQ Query results changes in seemingly breaking ways](#groq-query-results-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways)
- [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [1 to 2](#1-to-2)
    - [Removal of `castFromTyped`](#removal-of-castfromtyped)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install sanity @sanity-typed/client
```

## Usage

Use `createClient` exactly as you would from [`@sanity/client`](https://github.com/sanity-io/client) with a minor change for proper type inference.

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
```product.ts```:
```typescript
// import { defineArrayMember, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import {
  defineArrayMember,
  defineField,
  defineType,
} from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using defineType, defineField, and defineArrayMember */
export const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "productName",
      type: "string",
      title: "Product name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
    defineField({
      name: "tags",
      type: "array",
      title: "Tags for item",
      of: [
        defineArrayMember({
          type: "object",
          name: "tag",
          fields: [
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "label" }),
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "value" }),
          ],
        }),
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
```sanity.config.ts```:
```typescript
import { deskTool } from "sanity/desk";

// import { defineConfig } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { post } from "./schemas/post";
import { product } from "./schemas/product";

/** No changes using defineConfig */
const config = defineConfig({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  plugins: [deskTool()],
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
      post,
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

/** Typescript type of all types! */
export type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === {
 *    product: {
 *      _createdAt: string;
 *      _id: string;
 *      _rev: string;
 *      _type: "product";
 *      _updatedAt: string;
 *      productName: string;
 *      tags?: {
 *        _key: string;
 *        _type: "tag";
 *        label?: string;
 *        value?: string;
 *      }[];
 *    };
 *    // ... all your types!
 *  }
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-app/src/sanity/client.ts -->
```client.ts```:
```typescript
import type { SanityValues } from "sanity.config";

// import { createClient } from "@sanity/client";
import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

/** Small change using createClient */
// export const client = createClient({
export const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  useCdn: true,
  apiVersion: "2023-05-23",
});

export const makeTypedQuery = async () =>
  client.fetch('*[_type=="product"]{_id,productName,tags}');
/**
 *  typeof makeTypedQuery === () => Promise<{
 *    _id: string;
 *    productName: string;
 *    tags: {
 *      _key: string;
 *      _type: "tag";
 *      label?: string;
 *      value?: string;
 *    }[] | null;
 *  }[]>
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-app/src/sanity/client.ts -->

The `createClient<SanityValues>()(config)` syntax is due to having to infer one generic (the config shape) while explicitly providing the Sanity Values' type, [which can't be done in the same generics](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/10571).

## Typing an untyped client (and vice versa)

Sometimes, you'll have a preconfigured client from a separate library that you will still want typed results from. A `castToTyped` function is provided to do just that.

```typescript
import { createClient } from "some-other-create-client";

import { castToTyped } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient({
  // ...
});

// Same function signature as the typed `createClient`
const typedClient = castToTyped<SanityValues>()(client);

// Also, if you need the config in the client (eg. for queries using $param),
// you can provide the same config again to include it in the types.

// const typedClient = castToTyped<SanityValues>()(client, {
//   ...same contents from createClient
// });

const data = await typedClient.fetch("*");
/**
 *  typeof data === {
 *    _createdAt: string;
 *    _id: string;
 *    _rev: string;
 *    _type: "product";
 *    _updatedAt: string;
 *    productName?: string;
 *    tags?: {
 *      _key: string;
 *      label?: string;
 *      value?: string;
 *    }[];
 *  }[]
 */
```

This function (nor the `createClient` function) have any runtime implications; it passes through the initial client unaltered.

Similarly, if you have a typed client that you want to untype (presumably to export from a library for general consumption), you can always cast it:

```typescript
import type { SanityClient as SanityClientNative } from "@sanity/client";

import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  // ...
});

export const typedClient = client;

export const untypedClient = client as SanityClientNative;

export default untypedClient;
```

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
### Types match config but not actual documents

As your sanity driven application grows over time, your config is likely to change. Keep in mind that you can only derive types of your current config, while documents in your Sanity Content Lake will have shapes from older configs. This can be a problem when adding new fields or changing the type of old fields, as the types won't can clash with the old documents.

Ultimately, there's nothing that can automatically solve this; we can't derive types from a no longer existing config. This is a consideration with or without types: your application needs to handle all existing documents. Be sure to make changes in a backwards compatible manner (ie, make new fields optional, don't change the type of old fields, etc).

Another solution would be to keep old configs around, just to derive their types:

```typescript
const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

const oldConfig = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [oldFoo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

type SanityValues =
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof config>
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof oldConfig>;
```

This can get unwieldy although, if you're diligent about data migrations of your old documents to your new types, you may be able to deprecate old configs and remove them from your codebase.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/evaluate-type-flakiness.md -->
### GROQ Query results changes in seemingly breaking ways

Similar to [parsing](#the-parsed-tree-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways), evaluating groq queries will attempt to match how sanity actually evaluates queries. Again, any fixes to match that or changes to groq evaluation will likely not be considered a major change but, rather, a bug fix.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/evaluate-type-flakiness.md -->

## Breaking Changes

### 1 to 2

#### Removal of `castFromTyped`

Casting from typed to untyped is now just a simple cast:

```diff
+ import type { SanityClient as SanityClientNative } from "@sanity/client";

- import { castFromTyped, createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";
+ import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  // ...
});

export const typedClient = client;

- export const untypedClient = castFromTyped(client);
+ export const untypedClient = client as SanityClientNative;

export default untypedClient;
```

`castToTyped` still exists.

## Alternatives

- [`@sanity-codegen/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/client)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/client/_README.md -->

Commit message:

fix(docs): update docs for complex GROQ queries
fixes #652

packages/client/README.md, after:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/client/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/client

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/client?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/client)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/client?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/client?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

[@sanity/client](https://github.com/sanity-io/client) with typed GROQ Results

[![Watch How to Type Your Sanity Document and Client](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/886bd64a-00fb-473c-a60a-205a8a6767ad)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/13c28e6a-74a7-4b3c-8162-61fae921323b)

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Typing an untyped client (and vice versa)](#typing-an-untyped-client-and-vice-versa)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [Types match config but not actual documents](#types-match-config-but-not-actual-documents)
  - [GROQ Query results changes in seemingly breaking ways](#groq-query-results-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways)
  - [`Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite`](#type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite)
- [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [1 to 2](#1-to-2)
    - [Removal of `castFromTyped`](#removal-of-castfromtyped)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install sanity @sanity-typed/client
```

## Usage

Use `createClient` exactly as you would from [`@sanity/client`](https://github.com/sanity-io/client) with a minor change for proper type inference.

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
```product.ts```:
```typescript
// import { defineArrayMember, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import {
  defineArrayMember,
  defineField,
  defineType,
} from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using defineType, defineField, and defineArrayMember */
export const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "productName",
      type: "string",
      title: "Product name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
    defineField({
      name: "tags",
      type: "array",
      title: "Tags for item",
      of: [
        defineArrayMember({
          type: "object",
          name: "tag",
          fields: [
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "label" }),
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "value" }),
          ],
        }),
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
```sanity.config.ts```:
```typescript
import { deskTool } from "sanity/desk";

// import { defineConfig } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { post } from "./schemas/post";
import { product } from "./schemas/product";

/** No changes using defineConfig */
const config = defineConfig({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  plugins: [deskTool()],
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
      post,
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

/** Typescript type of all types! */
export type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === {
 *    product: {
 *      _createdAt: string;
 *      _id: string;
 *      _rev: string;
 *      _type: "product";
 *      _updatedAt: string;
 *      productName: string;
 *      tags?: {
 *        _key: string;
 *        _type: "tag";
 *        label?: string;
 *        value?: string;
 *      }[];
 *    };
 *    // ... all your types!
 *  }
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-app/src/sanity/client.ts -->
```client.ts```:
```typescript
import type { SanityValues } from "sanity.config";

// import { createClient } from "@sanity/client";
import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

/** Small change using createClient */
// export const client = createClient({
export const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  useCdn: true,
  apiVersion: "2023-05-23",
});

export const makeTypedQuery = async () =>
  client.fetch('*[_type=="product"]{_id,productName,tags}');
/**
 *  typeof makeTypedQuery === () => Promise<{
 *    _id: string;
 *    productName: string;
 *    tags: {
 *      _key: string;
 *      _type: "tag";
 *      label?: string;
 *      value?: string;
 *    }[] | null;
 *  }[]>
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-app/src/sanity/client.ts -->

The `createClient<SanityValues>()(config)` syntax is due to having to infer one generic (the config shape) while explicitly providing the Sanity Values' type, [which can't be done in the same generics](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/10571).

## Typing an untyped client (and vice versa)

Sometimes, you'll have a preconfigured client from a separate library that you will still want typed results from. A `castToTyped` function is provided to do just that.

```typescript
import { createClient } from "some-other-create-client";

import { castToTyped } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient({
  // ...
});

// Same function signature as the typed `createClient`
const typedClient = castToTyped<SanityValues>()(client);

// Also, if you need the config in the client (eg. for queries using $param),
// you can provide the same config again to include it in the types.

// const typedClient = castToTyped<SanityValues>()(client, {
//   ...same contents from createClient
// });

const data = await typedClient.fetch("*");
/**
 *  typeof data === {
 *    _createdAt: string;
 *    _id: string;
 *    _rev: string;
 *    _type: "product";
 *    _updatedAt: string;
 *    productName?: string;
 *    tags?: {
 *      _key: string;
 *      label?: string;
 *      value?: string;
 *    }[];
 *  }[]
 */
```

This function (nor the `createClient` function) have any runtime implications; it passes through the initial client unaltered.

Similarly, if you have a typed client that you want to untype (presumably to export from a library for general consumption), you can always cast it:

```typescript
import type { SanityClient as SanityClientNative } from "@sanity/client";

import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  // ...
});

export const typedClient = client;

export const untypedClient = client as SanityClientNative;

export default untypedClient;
```

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
### Types match config but not actual documents

As your sanity driven application grows over time, your config is likely to change. Keep in mind that you can only derive types of your current config, while documents in your Sanity Content Lake will have shapes from older configs. This can be a problem when adding new fields or changing the type of old fields, as the types won't can clash with the old documents.

Ultimately, there's nothing that can automatically solve this; we can't derive types from a no longer existing config. This is a consideration with or without types: your application needs to handle all existing documents. Be sure to make changes in a backwards compatible manner (ie, make new fields optional, don't change the type of old fields, etc).

Another solution would be to keep old configs around, just to derive their types:

```typescript
const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

const oldConfig = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [oldFoo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

type SanityValues =
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof config>
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof oldConfig>;
```

This can get unwieldy although, if you're diligent about data migrations of your old documents to your new types, you may be able to deprecate old configs and remove them from your codebase.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/evaluate-type-flakiness.md -->
### GROQ Query results changes in seemingly breaking ways

Similar to [parsing](#the-parsed-tree-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways), evaluating groq queries will attempt to match how sanity actually evaluates queries. Again, any fixes to match that or changes to groq evaluation will likely not be considered a major change but, rather, a bug fix.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/evaluate-type-flakiness.md -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite-query.md -->
### `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite`

You might run into the dreaded `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite` error when writing GROQ queries. This isn't [too uncommon with more complex GROQ queries](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/issues?q=is%3Aissue+instantiation+is%3Aclosed). Unfortunately, this isn't a completely avoidable problem, as typescript has limits on complexity and parsing types from a string is an inherently complex problem. A set of steps for a workaround:

1. While not ideal, use [`@ts-expect-error`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#-ts-expect-error-comments) to disable the error. You could use [`@ts-ignore` instead](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#ts-ignore-or-ts-expect-error), but ideally you'd like to remove the comment if a fix is released.
2. You still likely want manual types. Intersect the returned type with whatever is missing as a patch.
3. Create a PR in [`groq/src/specific-issues.test.ts`](../groq/src/specific-issues.test.ts) with your issue. [#642](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pull/642/files) is a great example for this. Try to reduce your query and config as much as possible. The goal is a minimal reproduction.
4. If a PR isn't possible, make an issue with the same content. ie, the query and config you're using. Again, reduce them as much as possible. And then, now that you've done all the work, move it into a PR instead!
5. I'm one person and some of these issues are quite complex. Take a stab at fixing the bug! There's a ridiculous amount of tests so it's relatively safe to try things out.

People will sometimes create a repo with their issue. _Please_ open a PR with a minimal test instead. Without a PR there will be no tests reflecting your issue and it may appear again in a regression. Forking a github repo to make a PR is a more welcome way to contribute to an open source library.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite-query.md -->

## Breaking Changes

### 1 to 2

#### Removal of `castFromTyped`

Casting from typed to untyped is now just a simple cast:

```diff
+ import type { SanityClient as SanityClientNative } from "@sanity/client";

- import { castFromTyped, createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";
+ import { createClient } from "@sanity-typed/client";

import type { SanityValues } from "./sanity.config";

const client = createClient<SanityValues>()({
  // ...
});

export const typedClient = client;

- export const untypedClient = castFromTyped(client);
+ export const untypedClient = client as SanityClientNative;

export default untypedClient;
```

`castToTyped` still exists.

## Alternatives

- [`@sanity-codegen/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/client)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/client/_README.md -->
