packages/types/README.md, before:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/types/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/types

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/types?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/types)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/types?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/types?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

Infer Sanity Document Types from Sanity Schemas

[![Watch How to Type Your Sanity Document and Client](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/886bd64a-00fb-473c-a60a-205a8a6767ad)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/13c28e6a-74a7-4b3c-8162-61fae921323b)

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [`DocumentValues`](#documentvalues)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
  - [Writing typed plugins](#writing-typed-plugins)
  - [Using external untyped plugins](#using-external-untyped-plugins)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [Types match config but not actual documents](#types-match-config-but-not-actual-documents)
- [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [4 to 5](#4-to-5)
    - [Removed `_InferValue` and `AliasValue`](#removed-_infervalue-and-aliasvalue)
  - [3 to 4](#3-to-4)
    - [Referenced `_type` needs `as const`](#referenced-_type-needs-as-const)
    - [Renamed `DocumentValue` to `SanityDocument`](#renamed-documentvalue-to-sanitydocument)
  - [2 to 3](#2-to-3)
    - [InferSchemaValues](#inferschemavalues)
    - [InferValue](#infervalue)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install sanity @sanity-typed/types
```

## Usage

Use `defineConfig`, `defineType`, `defineField`, and `defineArrayMember` from this library exactly as you would from [`sanity`](https://www.sanity.io/docs/schema-field-types#e5642a3e8506). Then, use `InferSchemaValues` to get the typescript types!

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
```product.ts```:
```typescript
// import { defineArrayMember, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import {
  defineArrayMember,
  defineField,
  defineType,
} from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using defineType, defineField, and defineArrayMember */
export const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "productName",
      type: "string",
      title: "Product name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
    defineField({
      name: "tags",
      type: "array",
      title: "Tags for item",
      of: [
        defineArrayMember({
          type: "object",
          name: "tag",
          fields: [
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "label" }),
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "value" }),
          ],
        }),
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
```sanity.config.ts```:
```typescript
import { visionTool } from "@sanity/vision";
import { deskTool } from "sanity/desk";

// import { defineConfig } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { product } from "./schemas/product";

/** No changes using defineConfig */
const config = defineConfig({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  plugins: [deskTool(), visionTool()],
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

/** Typescript type of all types! */
export type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === {
 *    product: {
 *      _createdAt: string;
 *      _id: string;
 *      _rev: string;
 *      _type: "product";
 *      _updatedAt: string;
 *      productName: string;
 *      tags?: {
 *        _key: string;
 *        _type: "tag";
 *        label?: string;
 *        value?: string;
 *      }[];
 *    };
 *    // ... all your types!
 *  }
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->

## `DocumentValues`

While `InferSchemaValues` gives you all the types for a given config keyed by type, sometimes you just want a union of all the `SanityDocument`s. Drop it into `DocumentValues`:

```typescript
import type { DocumentValues, InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

const config = defineConfig({
  /* ... */
});

type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === { [type: string]: TypeValueButSomeTypesArentDocuments }
 */

type SanityDocuments = DocumentValues<SanityValues>;
/**
 *  SanityDocuments === Each | Document | In | A | Union
 */
```

## Plugins

### Writing typed plugins

Use `definePlugin` from this library exactly as you would from [sanity's own exports](https://www.sanity.io/docs/developing-plugins).

`my-plugin.ts`:

```typescript
// import { defineField, definePlugin, defineType } from "sanity";
import { defineField, definePlugin, defineType } from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using definePlugin */
export const myPlugin = definePlugin({
  name: "plugin",
  schema: {
    types: [
      defineType({
        name: "myPlugin",
        type: "object",
        fields: [
          defineField({
            name: "baz",
            type: "boolean",
          }),
        ],
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

`sanity.config.ts`:

```typescript
// import { defineConfig, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig, defineField, defineType } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { myPlugin } from "./my-plugin";

const foo = defineType({
  name: "foo",
  type: "document",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "bar",
      type: "myPlugin",
    }),
  ],
});

const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

export default config;

type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

export type Foo = SanityValues["foo"];
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _createdAt: string;
 *    _id: string;
 *    _rev: string;
 *    _type: "foo";
 *    _updatedAt: string;
 *    bar?: {
 *      _type: "myPlugin";
 *      baz?: boolean;
 *    };
 *  };
 **/
```

However, this export won't work for users who are using sanity's default methods. So that you won't have to define your plugin twice, we provide a `castFromTyped` method, which converts the outputs of any `define*` method to their native `sanity` counterparts:

```typescript
import { castFromTyped, definePlugin } from "@sanity-typed/types";

export const myTypedPlugin = definePlugin({
  name: "plugin",
  schema: {
    types: [
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

// You'll likely want this as a default export as well!
export const myUntypedPlugin = castFromTyped(myTypedPlugin);
```

### Using external untyped plugins

sanity-typed also works directly with untyped `definePlugin` directly, so you can import and use plugins directly (although they type as `unknown` values). It doesn't handle untyped `defineField`/`defineArrayMember`/`defineType` though, and some plugins export some for convenience. `castToTyped` similarly converts untyped `define*` methods to `sanity-typed` versions with `unknown` values:

```typescript
import { orderRankField } from "@sanity/orderable-document-list";

import { castToTyped } from "@sanity-typed/types";

const nav = defineType({
  name: "nav",
  type: "document",
  title: "Navigation",
  fields: [
    castToTyped(orderRankField({ type: "nav" })),
    defineField({
      name: "name",
      type: "string",
      title: "Name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
### Types match config but not actual documents

As your sanity driven application grows over time, your config is likely to change. Keep in mind that you can only derive types of your current config, while documents in your Sanity Content Lake will have shapes from older configs. This can be a problem when adding new fields or changing the type of old fields, as the types won't can clash with the old documents.

Ultimately, there's nothing that can automatically solve this; we can't derive types from a no longer existing config. This is a consideration with or without types: your application needs to handle all existing documents. Be sure to make changes in a backwards compatible manner (ie, make new fields optional, don't change the type of old fields, etc).

Another solution would be to keep old configs around, just to derive their types:

```typescript
const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

const oldConfig = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [oldFoo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

type SanityValues =
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof config>
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof oldConfig>;
```

This can get unwieldy although, if you're diligent about data migrations of your old documents to your new types, you may be able to deprecate old configs and remove them from your codebase.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->

## Breaking Changes

### 4 to 5

#### Removed `_InferValue` and `AliasValue`

Use [`InferSchemaValues`](#inferschemavalues) instead. Neither `_InferValue` nor `AliasValue` are directly usable, while `InferSchemaValues` is the only real world use case.

### 3 to 4

#### Referenced `_type` needs `as const`

For `@sanity-typed/groq` to infer the right types from references, the reference type needs to carry the type it's referencing along with it. Unfortunately, it isn't deriving the literal so an `as const` is needed.

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "foo",
      type: "reference",
-     to: [{ type: "referencedType" }],
+     to: [{ type: "referencedType" as const }],
    }),
  ],
});
```

#### Renamed `DocumentValue` to `SanityDocument`

```diff
- import type { DocumentValue } from "@sanity-typed/types";
+ import type { SanityDocument } from "@sanity-typed/types";
```

### 2 to 3

#### InferSchemaValues

`InferSchemaValues<typeof config>` used to return a union of all types but now returns an object keyed off by type. This is because using `Extract` to retrieve specific type was difficult. Object types would have a `_type` for easy extraction, but all the other types were less reliable (i.e. arrays and primitives).

```diff
export default config;

type Values = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

- export type Product = Extract<Values, { _type: "product" }>
+ export type Product = Values["product"];
```

#### InferValue

Types used to be inferred using `InferValue<typeof type>` for easy exporting. Now, `InferSchemaValues<typeof config>` needs to be used, and individual types keyed off of it. The reason for this is that only the config has context about aliased types, so `InferValue` was always going to be missing those values.

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    // ...
  ],
});

- export type Product = InferValue<typeof product>;

const config = defineConfig({
  // ...
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

type Values = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

+ export type Product = Values["product"];
```

You can still use `_InferValue` but this is discouraged, because it will be missing the context from the config (and is removed in v5):

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    // ...
  ],
});

- export type Product = InferValue<typeof product>;
+ export type Product = _InferValue<typeof product>;
```

## Alternatives

- [`sanity-codegen`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-codegen)
- [`@sanity-codegen/cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/cli)
- [`sanity-generator`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-queries`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-schema`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema)
- [`sanity-schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema)
- [`@sanity-typed/schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/schema-builder)
- [`sanity-typed-schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema-builder)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/types/_README.md -->

Commit message:

feat(block): type block styles
BREAKING CHANGE: requires an `as const` for styles

packages/types/README.md, after:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/types/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/types

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/types?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/types)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/types?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/types?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

Infer Sanity Document Types from Sanity Schemas

[![Watch How to Type Your Sanity Document and Client](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/886bd64a-00fb-473c-a60a-205a8a6767ad)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/assets/2819256/13c28e6a-74a7-4b3c-8162-61fae921323b)

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [`DocumentValues`](#documentvalues)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
  - [Writing typed plugins](#writing-typed-plugins)
  - [Using external untyped plugins](#using-external-untyped-plugins)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [Types match config but not actual documents](#types-match-config-but-not-actual-documents)
- [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [5 to 6](#5-to-6)
    - [Block fields require `as const`](#block-fields-require-as-const)
  - [4 to 5](#4-to-5)
    - [Removed `_InferValue` and `AliasValue`](#removed-_infervalue-and-aliasvalue)
  - [3 to 4](#3-to-4)
    - [Referenced `_type` needs `as const`](#referenced-_type-needs-as-const)
    - [Renamed `DocumentValue` to `SanityDocument`](#renamed-documentvalue-to-sanitydocument)
  - [2 to 3](#2-to-3)
    - [InferSchemaValues](#inferschemavalues)
    - [InferValue](#infervalue)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install sanity @sanity-typed/types
```

## Usage

Use `defineConfig`, `defineType`, `defineField`, and `defineArrayMember` from this library exactly as you would from [`sanity`](https://www.sanity.io/docs/schema-field-types#e5642a3e8506). Then, use `InferSchemaValues` to get the typescript types!

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
```product.ts```:
```typescript
// import { defineArrayMember, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import {
  defineArrayMember,
  defineField,
  defineType,
} from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using defineType, defineField, and defineArrayMember */
export const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "productName",
      type: "string",
      title: "Product name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
    defineField({
      name: "tags",
      type: "array",
      title: "Tags for item",
      of: [
        defineArrayMember({
          type: "object",
          name: "tag",
          fields: [
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "label" }),
            defineField({ type: "string", name: "value" }),
          ],
        }),
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/schemas/product.ts -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->
```sanity.config.ts```:
```typescript
import { visionTool } from "@sanity/vision";
import { deskTool } from "sanity/desk";

// import { defineConfig } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { product } from "./schemas/product";

/** No changes using defineConfig */
const config = defineConfig({
  projectId: "59t1ed5o",
  dataset: "production",
  plugins: [deskTool(), visionTool()],
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

/** Typescript type of all types! */
export type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === {
 *    product: {
 *      _createdAt: string;
 *      _id: string;
 *      _rev: string;
 *      _type: "product";
 *      _updatedAt: string;
 *      productName: string;
 *      tags?: {
 *        _key: string;
 *        _type: "tag";
 *        label?: string;
 *        value?: string;
 *      }[];
 *    };
 *    // ... all your types!
 *  }
 */
```
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (typescript): SOURCE packages/example-studio/sanity.config.ts -->

## `DocumentValues`

While `InferSchemaValues` gives you all the types for a given config keyed by type, sometimes you just want a union of all the `SanityDocument`s. Drop it into `DocumentValues`:

```typescript
import type { DocumentValues, InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

const config = defineConfig({
  /* ... */
});

type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;
/**
 *  SanityValues === { [type: string]: TypeValueButSomeTypesArentDocuments }
 */

type SanityDocuments = DocumentValues<SanityValues>;
/**
 *  SanityDocuments === Each | Document | In | A | Union
 */
```

## Plugins

### Writing typed plugins

Use `definePlugin` from this library exactly as you would from [sanity's own exports](https://www.sanity.io/docs/developing-plugins).

`my-plugin.ts`:

```typescript
// import { defineField, definePlugin, defineType } from "sanity";
import { defineField, definePlugin, defineType } from "@sanity-typed/types";

/** No changes using definePlugin */
export const myPlugin = definePlugin({
  name: "plugin",
  schema: {
    types: [
      defineType({
        name: "myPlugin",
        type: "object",
        fields: [
          defineField({
            name: "baz",
            type: "boolean",
          }),
        ],
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

`sanity.config.ts`:

```typescript
// import { defineConfig, defineField, defineType } from "sanity";
import { defineConfig, defineField, defineType } from "@sanity-typed/types";
import type { InferSchemaValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";

import { myPlugin } from "./my-plugin";

const foo = defineType({
  name: "foo",
  type: "document",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "bar",
      type: "myPlugin",
    }),
  ],
});

const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

export default config;

type SanityValues = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

export type Foo = SanityValues["foo"];
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _createdAt: string;
 *    _id: string;
 *    _rev: string;
 *    _type: "foo";
 *    _updatedAt: string;
 *    bar?: {
 *      _type: "myPlugin";
 *      baz?: boolean;
 *    };
 *  };
 **/
```

However, this export won't work for users who are using sanity's default methods. So that you won't have to define your plugin twice, we provide a `castFromTyped` method, which converts the outputs of any `define*` method to their native `sanity` counterparts:

```typescript
import { castFromTyped, definePlugin } from "@sanity-typed/types";

export const myTypedPlugin = definePlugin({
  name: "plugin",
  schema: {
    types: [
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

// You'll likely want this as a default export as well!
export const myUntypedPlugin = castFromTyped(myTypedPlugin);
```

### Using external untyped plugins

sanity-typed also works directly with untyped `definePlugin` directly, so you can import and use plugins directly (although they type as `unknown` values). It doesn't handle untyped `defineField`/`defineArrayMember`/`defineType` though, and some plugins export some for convenience. `castToTyped` similarly converts untyped `define*` methods to `sanity-typed` versions with `unknown` values:

```typescript
import { orderRankField } from "@sanity/orderable-document-list";

import { castToTyped } from "@sanity-typed/types";

const nav = defineType({
  name: "nav",
  type: "document",
  title: "Navigation",
  fields: [
    castToTyped(orderRankField({ type: "nav" })),
    defineField({
      name: "name",
      type: "string",
      title: "Name",
      validation: (Rule) => Rule.required(),
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->
### Types match config but not actual documents

As your sanity driven application grows over time, your config is likely to change. Keep in mind that you can only derive types of your current config, while documents in your Sanity Content Lake will have shapes from older configs. This can be a problem when adding new fields or changing the type of old fields, as the types won't can clash with the old documents.

Ultimately, there's nothing that can automatically solve this; we can't derive types from a no longer existing config. This is a consideration with or without types: your application needs to handle all existing documents. Be sure to make changes in a backwards compatible manner (ie, make new fields optional, don't change the type of old fields, etc).

Another solution would be to keep old configs around, just to derive their types:

```typescript
const config = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [foo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

const oldConfig = defineConfig({
  schema: {
    types: [oldFoo],
  },
  plugins: [myPlugin()],
});

type SanityValues =
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof config>
  | InferSchemaValues<typeof oldConfig>;
```

This can get unwieldy although, if you're diligent about data migrations of your old documents to your new types, you may be able to deprecate old configs and remove them from your codebase.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/types-vs-content-lake.md -->

## Breaking Changes

### 5 to 6

#### Block fields require `as const`

Similar to references, to get the right types out of a block, we'll need a few `as const`

```diff
const foo = defineType({
  name: "foo",
  type: "array",
  of: [
    defineArrayMember({
      type: "block",
      styles: [
-       { title: "Foo", value: "foo" },
+       { title: "Foo", value: "foo" as const },
-       { title: "Bar", value: "bar" },
+       { title: "Bar", value: "bar" as const },
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```

### 4 to 5

#### Removed `_InferValue` and `AliasValue`

Use [`InferSchemaValues`](#inferschemavalues) instead. Neither `_InferValue` nor `AliasValue` are directly usable, while `InferSchemaValues` is the only real world use case.

### 3 to 4

#### Referenced `_type` needs `as const`

For `@sanity-typed/groq` to infer the right types from references, the reference type needs to carry the type it's referencing along with it. Unfortunately, it isn't deriving the literal so an `as const` is needed.

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    defineField({
      name: "foo",
      type: "reference",
-     to: [{ type: "referencedType" }],
+     to: [{ type: "referencedType" as const }],
    }),
  ],
});
```

#### Renamed `DocumentValue` to `SanityDocument`

```diff
- import type { DocumentValue } from "@sanity-typed/types";
+ import type { SanityDocument } from "@sanity-typed/types";
```

### 2 to 3

#### InferSchemaValues

`InferSchemaValues<typeof config>` used to return a union of all types but now returns an object keyed off by type. This is because using `Extract` to retrieve specific type was difficult. Object types would have a `_type` for easy extraction, but all the other types were less reliable (i.e. arrays and primitives).

```diff
export default config;

type Values = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

- export type Product = Extract<Values, { _type: "product" }>
+ export type Product = Values["product"];
```

#### InferValue

Types used to be inferred using `InferValue<typeof type>` for easy exporting. Now, `InferSchemaValues<typeof config>` needs to be used, and individual types keyed off of it. The reason for this is that only the config has context about aliased types, so `InferValue` was always going to be missing those values.

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    // ...
  ],
});

- export type Product = InferValue<typeof product>;

const config = defineConfig({
  // ...
  schema: {
    types: [
      product,
      // ...
    ],
  },
});

export default config;

type Values = InferSchemaValues<typeof config>;

+ export type Product = Values["product"];
```

You can still use `_InferValue` but this is discouraged, because it will be missing the context from the config (and is removed in v5):

```diff
const product = defineType({
  name: "product",
  type: "document",
  title: "Product",
  fields: [
    // ...
  ],
});

- export type Product = InferValue<typeof product>;
+ export type Product = _InferValue<typeof product>;
```

## Alternatives

- [`sanity-codegen`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-codegen)
- [`@sanity-codegen/cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/cli)
- [`sanity-generator`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-queries`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-schema`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema)
- [`sanity-schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema)
- [`@sanity-typed/schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/schema-builder)
- [`sanity-typed-schema-builder`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-typed-schema-builder)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/types/_README.md -->
