packages/groq/README.md, before:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/groq/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/groq

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/groq?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/groq)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/groq?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/groq?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

Infer [GROQ](https://github.com/sanity-io/groq) Result Types from GROQ strings

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [The parsed tree changes in seemingly breaking ways](#the-parsed-tree-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install @sanity-typed/groq
```

## Usage

Typically, this isn't used directly, but via [`@sanity-typed/client`'s](../client) and [`@sanity-typed/groq-js`'s](../groq-js) methods that use groq strings. But it can be done directly:

```typescript
import { ExecuteQuery, RootScope } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Foo = ExecuteQuery<
  '*[_type=="foo"]',
  RootScope<
    // If you have SanityValues from @sanity-typed/types, use those types:
    // import { DocumentValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";
    // DocumentValues<SanityValues>
    ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[],
    { _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" }
  >
>;
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _type: "foo";
 *  }[]
 */
```

There is also a `Parse` and `Evaluate` if you need the AST:

```typescript
import { Evaluate, Parse, RootScope } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Tree = Parse<'*[_type=="foo"]'>;
/**
 *  Tree === {
 *    type: "Filter";
 *    base: { type: "Everything" };
 *    expr: {
 *      type: "OpCall";
 *      op: "==";
 *      left: { type: "AccessAttribute"; name: "_type" };
 *      right: { type: "Value"; value: "foo" };
 *    };
 *  }
 */

type Foo = Evaluate<
  Tree,
  RootScope<
    // If you have SanityValues from @sanity-typed/types, use those types:
    // import { DocumentValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";
    // DocumentValues<SanityValues>
    ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[],
    { _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" }
  >
>;
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _type: "foo";
 *  }[]
 */
```

For either, you can pass in a full scope:

```typescript
import { ExecuteQuery } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Foo = ExecuteQuery<
  '*[_type=="foo"]',
  {
    context: {
      client: ClientConfig;
      dataset: ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[];
      delta:
        | {
            after: { _type: "bar" } | null;
            before: { _type: "bar" } | null;
          }
        | {
            after: { _type: "foo" } | null;
            before: { _type: "foo" } | null;
          };
      identity: string;
      parameters: { [param: string]: any };
    };
    parent: null;
    this: null;
  }
>;
```

Chances are, you don't need this package directly.

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/parse-type-flakiness.md -->
### The parsed tree changes in seemingly breaking ways

`@sanity-typed/groq` attempts to type its parsed types as close as possible to [`groq-js`](https://github.com/sanity-io/groq-js)'s `parse` function output. Any fixes to match it more correctly won't be considered a major change and, if `groq-js` changes it's output in a version update, we're likely to match it. If you're using the parsed tree's types directly, this might cause your code to break. We don't consider this a breaking change because the intent of these groq libraries is to match the types of a groq query as closely as possible.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/parse-type-flakiness.md -->

## Alternatives

- [`@sanity-codegen/cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/cli)
- [`sanity-generator`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-queries`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`@sanity-codegen/groq-codegen`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/groq-codegen)
- [`sanity-query-helper`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-query-helper)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/groq/_README.md -->

Commit message:

fix(docs): update docs for complex GROQ queries
fixes #652

packages/groq/README.md, after:

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/groq/_README.md -->
# @sanity-typed/groq

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@sanity-typed/groq?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/groq)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity-typed/groq?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-typed/groq?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

Infer [GROQ](https://github.com/sanity-io/groq) Result Types from GROQ strings

## Page Contents
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Considerations](#considerations)
  - [The parsed tree changes in seemingly breaking ways](#the-parsed-tree-changes-in-seemingly-breaking-ways)
  - [`Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite`](#type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)

## Install

```bash
npm install @sanity-typed/groq
```

## Usage

Typically, this isn't used directly, but via [`@sanity-typed/client`'s](../client) and [`@sanity-typed/groq-js`'s](../groq-js) methods that use groq strings. But it can be done directly:

```typescript
import { ExecuteQuery, RootScope } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Foo = ExecuteQuery<
  '*[_type=="foo"]',
  RootScope<
    // If you have SanityValues from @sanity-typed/types, use those types:
    // import { DocumentValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";
    // DocumentValues<SanityValues>
    ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[],
    { _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" }
  >
>;
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _type: "foo";
 *  }[]
 */
```

There is also a `Parse` and `Evaluate` if you need the AST:

```typescript
import { Evaluate, Parse, RootScope } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Tree = Parse<'*[_type=="foo"]'>;
/**
 *  Tree === {
 *    type: "Filter";
 *    base: { type: "Everything" };
 *    expr: {
 *      type: "OpCall";
 *      op: "==";
 *      left: { type: "AccessAttribute"; name: "_type" };
 *      right: { type: "Value"; value: "foo" };
 *    };
 *  }
 */

type Foo = Evaluate<
  Tree,
  RootScope<
    // If you have SanityValues from @sanity-typed/types, use those types:
    // import { DocumentValues } from "@sanity-typed/types";
    // DocumentValues<SanityValues>
    ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[],
    { _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" }
  >
>;
/**
 *  Foo === {
 *    _type: "foo";
 *  }[]
 */
```

For either, you can pass in a full scope:

```typescript
import { ExecuteQuery } from "@sanity-typed/groq";

type Foo = ExecuteQuery<
  '*[_type=="foo"]',
  {
    context: {
      client: ClientConfig;
      dataset: ({ _type: "bar" } | { _type: "foo" })[];
      delta:
        | {
            after: { _type: "bar" } | null;
            before: { _type: "bar" } | null;
          }
        | {
            after: { _type: "foo" } | null;
            before: { _type: "foo" } | null;
          };
      identity: string;
      parameters: { [param: string]: any };
    };
    parent: null;
    this: null;
  }
>;
```

Chances are, you don't need this package directly.

## Considerations

<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/parse-type-flakiness.md -->
### The parsed tree changes in seemingly breaking ways

`@sanity-typed/groq` attempts to type its parsed types as close as possible to [`groq-js`](https://github.com/sanity-io/groq-js)'s `parse` function output. Any fixes to match it more correctly won't be considered a major change and, if `groq-js` changes it's output in a version update, we're likely to match it. If you're using the parsed tree's types directly, this might cause your code to break. We don't consider this a breaking change because the intent of these groq libraries is to match the types of a groq query as closely as possible.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/parse-type-flakiness.md -->
<!-- >>>>>> BEGIN INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite-query.md -->
### `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite`

You might run into the dreaded `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite` error when writing GROQ queries. This isn't [too uncommon with more complex GROQ queries](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/issues?q=is%3Aissue+instantiation+is%3Aclosed). Unfortunately, this isn't a completely avoidable problem, as typescript has limits on complexity and parsing types from a string is an inherently complex problem. A set of steps for a workaround:

1. While not ideal, use [`@ts-expect-error`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#-ts-expect-error-comments) to disable the error. You could use [`@ts-ignore` instead](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#ts-ignore-or-ts-expect-error), but ideally you'd like to remove the comment if a fix is released.
2. You still likely want manual types. Intersect the returned type with whatever is missing as a patch.
3. Create a PR in [`groq/src/specific-issues.test.ts`](../groq/src/specific-issues.test.ts) with your issue. [#642](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pull/642/files) is a great example for this. Try to reduce your query and config as much as possible. The goal is a minimal reproduction.
4. If a PR isn't possible, make an issue with the same content. ie, the query and config you're using. Again, reduce them as much as possible. And then, now that you've done all the work, move it into a PR instead!
5. I'm one person and some of these issues are quite complex. Take a stab at fixing the bug! There's a ridiculous amount of tests so it's relatively safe to try things out.

People will sometimes create a repo with their issue. _Please_ open a PR with a minimal test instead. Without a PR there will be no tests reflecting your issue and it may appear again in a regression. Forking a github repo to make a PR is a more welcome way to contribute to an open source library.
<!-- <<<<<< END INCLUDED FILE (markdown): SOURCE docs/considerations/type-instantiation-is-excessively-deep-and-possibly-infinite-query.md -->

## Alternatives

- [`@sanity-codegen/cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/cli)
- [`sanity-generator`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`sanity-typed-queries`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-generator)
- [`@sanity-codegen/groq-codegen`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity-codegen/groq-codegen)
- [`sanity-query-helper`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanity-query-helper)
<!-- <<<<<< END GENERATED FILE (include): SOURCE packages/groq/_README.md -->
