packages/react/_README.md, before:

# @portabletext-typed/react

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@portabletext-typed/react?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@portabletext-typed/react)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@portabletext-typed/react?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@portabletext-typed/react?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

**FIXME**

@[:page_toc](## Page Contents)

## Install

```bash
npm install @portabletext/react @portabletext-typed/react
```

## Usage

**FIXME**

@[typescript](../example-studio/schemas/post.ts)
@[typescript](../example-app/src/pages/with-portabletext-react.tsx)

Commit message:

fix(docs): finish up portabletext-typed docs

packages/react/_README.md, after:

# @portabletext-typed/react

[![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@portabletext-typed/react?style=flat&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@portabletext-typed/react)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/stargazers)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub issues by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/help%20wanted?style=flat&logo=github&color=007286)](https://github.com/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed/labels/help%20wanted)
[![Minified Size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@portabletext-typed/react?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@portabletext-typed/react?activeTab=code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/saiichihashimoto/sanity-typed?style=flat)](LICENSE)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/saiichihashimoto?style=flat&logo=githubsponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/saiichihashimoto)

[@portabletext/react](https://github.com/portabletext/react) with typed arguments

@[:page_toc](## Page Contents)

## Install

```bash
npm install @portabletext/react @portabletext-typed/react
```

## Usage

After using [@sanity-typed/types](../types) and [@sanity-typed/client](../client) and you have typed blocks, use `PortableText` from this library as you would from [`@portabletext/react`](https://github.com/portabletext/react) to get fully typed arguments!

@[typescript](../example-studio/schemas/post.ts)
@[typescript](../example-app/src/pages/with-portabletext-react.tsx)
